So let's see how that types thing works.
For that, let me create an index HTML file
with a base HTML skeleton like this
and in there,
I'll not spend too much time on the styling.
I'll simply add an input of type number,
and a another input of type number,
and a button where
I say add.
and when we click this button,
the two values entered into these two inputs
should be added up,
and should be output
in this paragraph below the button.
Now again, this will be a very ugly
and simple page,
but it's about TypeScript here.
Now let's add a little app.ts file, .ts because
we're going to write some TypeScript code in there.
Now we need to install the TypeScript compiler.
Now with Deno we didn't need to install it
but now we do need to install it.
Because we're not going to execute this code with Deno ,
I want to execute it in the browser instead,
and as I mentioned,
the browser doesn't run TypeScript.
So we need to convert TypeScript to JavaScript,
and for that, we need to TypeScript compiler.
As a side note,
Deno also needs to convert it, there decompiler,
the TypeScript compiler is just built into Deno.
But we can install the compiler standalone
by following the instructions we find
on typeScriptlang.org,
and the instructions are very simple.
In the terminal on our system,
we run npm install - g typeScript,
and on Mac and Linux,
you might need to add sudo in front of this
to get the right permissions.
Now, the npm command will only work though,
if you installed Node.js.
So make sure you do that first
and from nodejs.org ,you simply install the latest version.
This gives you an installer both
on Mac OS and Windows.
You can walk through the installer
and once installation finished
you'll be able to run this npm install command.
If you do so, you might be prompted for your password,
and then after this,
we'll install TypeScript.
The TypeScript compiler globally on your system.
and once it is installed,
you can always run tsc ,
which is a command which now is available,
and then the filename you want to compile ,
and this will convert this file to a JavaScript file,
which is why you now also see app.js,
and it's a JavaScript file,
which I'm now going to import here,
into my HTML file, app.js
and I'll add to defer to make sure this only executes
once the entire body has been parsed.
But now we're not going to work in app.js,
but we're going to work in app.ts.
Now when working with Deno,
you won't see those js files because they are generated
and stored behind the scenes you could say.
We only see it here because
this is a very basic project where
we control everything on our own
with help of the compiler.
So now in app.ts,
let's add this add function here,
num1, num2,
and return num1 plus num2 like this
and then First of all,
we can call it of course,
as I showed it before,
with strings, and with numbers just like that.
Now if I save this,
and I compile this again,
we can open this page in the browser
by simply opening this HTML file,
and now to see something in the console here,
we just have to log our results here.
So console.log the result here,
and console.log the result here.
Once we do that,
let's recompile this.
Reload, and we see seven and 16,
and that's the same behavior we saw before.
Now, where does TypeScript now help us?
Let's dive into type definitions in the next lecture